The sun shines.
The sun is shining.
The sun shone.
The sun will shine.
The sun has been shining.
The sun is shining again.
The sun will shine tomorrow.
The sun shines brightly.
The bright sun shines.
The sun is rising now.
All the people shouted.
Some of the people shouted.
Many of the people shouted twice.
Happy people often shout.
The kitten jumped up.
The kitten jumped onto the table.
My little kitten walked away.
It's raining.
The rain came down.
The kitten is playing in the rain.
The rain has stopped.
Soon the rain will stop.
Once wild animals lived here.
Slowly she looked around.
Go away!
Let's go!
You should go.
I will be happy to go.
He will arrive soon.
The baby's ball has rolled away.
The two boys are working together.
My cat is black.
I am very happy.
These oranges are juicy.
Sea water is salty.
The streets are full of people.
Sugar tastes sweet.
The fire feels hot.
Listen.
Is today Monday?
Sit here by me.
Come with us.
Be careful.
Do you like the red flower more than the yellow one?
The plate is on the table.
I hope the rain stops soon.
​This one is already a flower.
This mist will probably clear away.
Lovely flowers are growing everywhere.
We should eat more slowly.
You have come too soon.
You must write more neatly.
Directly opposite stands a wonderful palace.
Henry's dog is lost.
The little girl's doll is broken.
I usually sleep soundly.
The children ran after Jack.
I can play after school.
We went to the village for a visit.
We arrived at the river.
I have been waiting for you.
Were you born in this village?
Can your brother dance well?
Did the man leave?
Is your sister coming for you?
Can you come tomorrow?
The campers sat around the fire.
The cover of the basket fell to the floor.
I have lost my blanket.
Their voices sound very happy.
Have some tea.
Keep this secret until tomorrow.
You and I will go together.
He is small, but strong.
Is this tree an oak or a maple?
They opened all the doors and windows.
Does the sky look blue or gray?
Come with your father or mother.
I am tired, but very happy.
Stop your game and be quiet.
Do you like summer or winter better?
Aha! I have caught you!
The man annoyed the bear and then it attacked him.
This string is too short!
Are you warm enough now?
Our bird's name is Jacko.
The river knows the way to the sea.
A little girl with a kitten sat near me.
The child waited at the door for her father.
Yesterday the oldest girl in the village lost her kitten.
Have the neighbors gone away for the winter?
Does the robin sing in the rain?
Are you going with us to the concert?
Have you ever travelled in the jungle?
We sailed down the river for several miles.
Everybody knows about hunting.
On a Sunny morning after the solstice we started for the mountains.
Tom laughed at the monkey's tricks.
An old man with a walking stick stood beside the fence.
The squirrel's nest was hidden by drooping boughs.
The little seeds waited patiently under the snow for the warm spring sun.
Many little girls with wreaths of flowers on their heads danced around the bonfire.
The first boy in the line stopped at the entrance.
On the top of the hill in a little hut lived a wise old woman.
During our residence in the country we often walked in the pastures.
When will your guests from the city arrive?
Near the mouth of the river, its course turns sharply towards the East.
Between the two lofty mountains lay a fertile valley.
Among the wheat grew tall red poppies.
The strong roots of the oak trees were torn from the ground.
The sun looked down through the branches upon the children at play.
The west wind blew across my face like a friendly caress.
The spool of thread rolled across the floor.
A box of growing plants stood in the Window.
The little girl seemed lonely.
The little boy's father had once been a sailor.
A robin has built his nest in the apple tree.
At noon we ate our lunch by the roadside.
Mr. Jones made a knife for his little boy.
Have all the leaves fallen from the tree?
Will you be ready on time?
Will you send this message for me?
Are you waiting for me?
Is this the first kitten of the litter?
Are these shoes too big for you?
How wide is the River?
Bring your friends with you.
Pip and his dog were great friends.
John and Elizabeth are brother and sister.
He played a tune on his wonderful flute.
If you can't pronounce it, you can't afford it.
Toward the end of August the days grow much shorter.
A company of soldiers marched over the hill and across the meadow.
The first part of the story is very interesting.
The crow dropped some pebbles into the pitcher and raised the water to the brim.
The baby clapped her hands and laughed in glee.
The sound of the drums grew louder and louder.
That boy will have a wonderful trip.
They popped corn, and then sat around the fire and ate it.
They won the first two games, but lost the last one.
Take this note, carry it to your mother; and wait for an answer.
I awoke early, dressed hastily, and went down to breakfast.
Oh, dear! the wind has blown my hat away!
Alas! that news is sad indeed!
Whew! that cold wind freezes my nose!
They heard the warning too late.
We are a brave people, and love our country.
All the children came except Mary.
Jack seized a handful of pebbles and threw them into the lake.
This cottage stood on a low hill, at some distance from the village.
On a fine summer evening, the two old people were sitting outside the door of their cottage.
The boat sails away, like a bird on the wing.
They looked cautiously about, but saw nothing.
The little house had three rooms, a sitting room, a bedroom, and a tiny kitchen.
We visited my uncle's village, the largest village in the world.
We learn something new each day.
The market begins five minutes earlier this week.
Did you find the distance too great?
Hurry, children.
Madam, I will obey your command.
Here under this tree they gave their guests a splendid feast.
In winter I get up at night, and dress by yellow candlelight.
Tell the last part of that story again.
Be quick or you will be too late.
Will you go with us or wait here?
She was always, shabby, often ragged, and on cold days very uncomfortable.
Think first and then act.
I stood, a little mite of a girl, upon a chair by the window, and watched the falling snowflakes.
Show the guests these shells, my son, and tell them their strange history.
Be satisfied with nothing but your best.
We consider them our faithful friends.
We will make this place our home.
The squirrels make their nests warm and snug with soft moss and leaves.
The little girl made the doll's dress herself.
I hurt myself.
She was talking to herself.
He proved himself trustworthy.
We could see ourselves in the water.
Do it yourself.
I feel ashamed of myself.
Sit here by yourself.
The dress of the little princess was embroidered with roses, the national flower of the Country.
They wore red caps, the symbol of liberty.
With him as our protector, we fear no danger.
All her finery, lace, ribbons, and feathers, was packed away in a trunk.
Light he thought her, like a feather.
Every spring and fall our cousins pay us a long visit.
In our climate the grass remains green all winter.
The boy who brought the book has gone.
These are the flowers that you ordered.
I have lost the book that you gave me.
The fisherman who owned the boat now demanded payment.
Come when you are called.
I shall stay at home if it rains.
When he saw me, he stopped.
Do not laugh at me because I seem so absent minded.
I shall lend you the books that you need.
Come early next Monday if you can.
If you come early, wait in the hall.
I had a younger brother whose name was Antonio.
Gnomes are little men who live under the ground.
He is loved by everybody, because he has a gentle disposition.
Hold the horse while I run and get my cap.
I have found the ring I lost.
Play and I will sing.
That is the funniest story I ever heard.
She is taller than her brother.
They are no wiser than we.
Light travels faster than sound.
We have more time than they.
She has more friends than enemies.
He was very poor, and with his wife and five children lived in a little low cabin of logs and stones.
When the wind blew, the traveler wrapped his mantle more closely around him.
I am sure that we can go.
We went back to the place where we saw the roses.
"This tree is fifty feet high," said the gardener.
I think that this train leaves five minutes earlier today.
My opinion is that the governor will grant him a pardon.
Why he has left the city is a mystery.
The house stands where three roads meet.
He has far more money than brains.
Evidently that gate is never opened, for the long grass and the great hemlocks grow close against it.
I met a little cottage girl; she was eight years old, she said.
I can begin, I want to persevere, I will succeed.
If you can understand this, you know too much.
Nobody remembers the names of ants.
If you call me insane again, I'll eat your other eye.
Fight linguistic extinction... invent a language!
I may be drunk, but tomorrow I shall be sober, and you will still be ugly.
Happy birthday.
Where do you come from?
Who are you?
Whose (man, servant) are you?
What is your name?
Where is your house?
Why do you come? (What do you want?)
Why are you here?
I sit here to watch.
What is the name of this village?
Have you any errand (business)?
Not any; I have come to no purpose.
Then go home to eat (drink) your soup.
Yes: please give me some medecine.
I am ill (I have got, am befallen with, an illness).
I feel pain.
Where?
In the stomach.
I have headache.
We should have taken a walk, but it is too hot.
Take this!
Take this with (you)!
Bring this!
How shall I do this?
You must not do it in this way.
I want some more milk.
Clean this!
Wash it with sand!
Give me some water, please!
Are (your) hands clean?
Filter the milk through the filtering cloth!
Put the little stove there!
Put the pot (_degc`i_) down on the ground!
Put the pot near the fire!
Take it off!
As soon as the sun sets, light a fire!
Go to fetch the china!
Come to take away this.
If you wash with cold water, the china does not become clean; wash it well with some hot (water)!
Unless all the work is done, don't go! (or) you must not go.
Shall I make the table ready?
Yes; lay (spread) the cloth!
Is there much water in the teapot, or little?
(But) a little.
Fill the teapot with water, and bring it!
The kettle leaks.
It must be soldered (fastened with pewter).
Take it to the blacksmith's.
The tumbler (glass-cup) has got a crack.
Unless I tell you, do not bring wood!
When master commands, I shall bring.
What did you say, sir (did the gentleman say)?
Don't cast it away! Do not let it slip!
Take care! Cautiously!
You must not press!
Put by the remainder the remainder of the rice!
There is no remainder, nothing is left.
Do not let the milk run over!
Not cutting the liver, bring it as a whole!
Peel the potatoes, and cut them in pieces!
Don't tarry much!
Come soon!
Do not forget!
(I) did not forget.
Can you remember it (bear it in mind)?
You must bear it in mind, (make it certain).
Go in! Come in!
Go (or come) in, sir!
Sit down!
Please sit down, sir!
I shall kill you like [I would kill] a dog.
I prefer grandma-style bread.
She sings loudly.
She sings in a way that makes her ridiculous.
The wind now blowing hates you who have ruled for so long.
This tavern/bar isn't as good as it used to be.
What are you doing? I told you to leave them where they were!
I would embrace the world if I could.
The cat ate the mouse I gave her like a tiger [would].
Yes, I've heard you, and no, I don't want to buy it.
Welcome! Here's your room key. -- Thank you. -- You're welcome.
Sir, could I please have a glass of water?
Your mother was a prostitute. (Or equally insulting idiom.)
The eyes are blind. One must look with the heart.
We are sitting in the night, and like the night, we are silent.
I know who I want to take me home.
The dog with the man that I saw was green.
I will begin to return all the way.
The boy is coming from the house.
They arrived only momentarily.
The hunter is coming with father.
I will come in January (remote).
You painted a canoe for him.
You bought the airplane in the mountains.
You made the bicycle come back.
He will sorrow for them who will teach her.
This mower is so dull, all it's doing is bending the grass over.
He opened the door and he (same referent) left the room.[see translations]
He sang and danced.
He sang and then danced.
He1 sang and he2 danced.
The sound came on.
There is a Santa Claus.
The genie appeared.
There is hope.
The footprints remained.
The ball is-red.
The rug is-shaggy.
The lake is-deep.
Water is-wet.
The man is angry.
The dog is being noisy.
The towel is-wet.
Bruce Wayne is Batman.
Two plus two equals four.
The ball is next to the box.
The coat is under the table.
The worm is in the bird.
The bird has wings.
The coat belongs to me.
The buffalo is bigger than the dog.
I am called 'Caine.'
The dog jumps.
The crowd booed.
The man turned around.
The girl laughed.
The man sneezed.
The doctor hiccoughed.
The teacher got sick.
The student fell.
The lady died.
The computer crashed.
The bomb exploded.
The fungus died.
The fungus grew.
The sun shines.
The fire burns.
The teacher fainted.
The student got-a-head-rush.
The artist experienced-esthetic-pleasure.
The man washed the shirt.
The man washed himself.
The men washed each other.
The hunters shot the deer.
The hunters shot themselves.
The hunters shot each other.
The sun melted the ice.
The fire burned the house.
The woman sees the bird.
The woman sees herself.
The woman and the bird see each other.
The student knows (about) statues.
The student knows (about) herself.
The students know (about) each other.
The man gave food to the babies.
The man gave food to himself.
The men gave food to each other.
The painting made me angry.
The general made me an assistant private.
The sun made the glue hard.
Pa named his boy Sue.
Futhor beat Huthor silly.
An expert has failed more times than the novice has even tried.
Huthor beat Futhor to a pulp.
The A'qhq people pound the roots to a thick paste.
He called me a traitor!
You can't add more years to your life, but you can add more life to your years.
He who eats the food left after the sacrifice is freed from all sin.
The book was read by my cousin.
I was read to by my cousin.
I didn't know that you were a philosopher.
What he was in FACT doing was moving the dirt around with a broom, to give it a change of scenery and a chance to make new friends.
There was once a man who beat his donkey every day.  One day, a second man, who was a neighbor, came to the donkey-beater and asked, “Why do you beat your donkey?”  The donkey-beater said, “Beating is all the donkey knows, I must beat him until he learns how to behave.” The donkey-beater then went into his home and discovered his dinner wasn’t ready, so he beat his wife.  His neighbor heard the screams of the donkey-beater’s wife and came to the door. “You should not beat your wife so much,” said the neighbor.   “I beat her until she learns to have dinner ready on time.” Some time later, the neighbor saw the donkey-beater beating his son in a field.  This time, he did not say anything, but seized the donkey beater and began to beat him with a heavy cudgel.  When the donkey-beater asked why his neighbor was beating him, his neighbor replied, “I will beat you until you learn not to beat others.”